Oh my God
I’m so tired.
Exhausted.
I can barely lift this now
Eighteen years carrying a tray on my head…
Stop son, stop, stop!
Go, go, I’ll…
Hey people, here comes the black lady with the white powdery stuff!
Hey, my people!
Dry tamarind loses its leaves…
[Melody from popular song]
Eat gelatin, they’re freshly made
JALE:
Hey people! Let’s eat!
1200 pesos.
From the roots, from the roots!
The only black lady with a white thingy in this country!
MAN: Be quiet, lady!
— Pay my bills!
When I lose my voice,
people tell me “go home Jale, ‘cause your working tool’s broken”
And my tool is my voice, because if I don’t shout, I do nothing.
Nothing because nobody…actually, when I’m quiet,
people say “Shout, shout, because if you don’t shout…you’re dead”
Coroncoro your auntie died, let her go
[Melody from popular song]
Coroncoro the gelatin is here, let it come
...Coroncoro...
It’s 600 pesos
Jale! With Redín...
[Soccer Player]
Medellín [Soccer Team] will lose ‘til the end!
JALE:
I don’t know how much I walk a day, but it’s a lot.
— How many, honey?
— Two
— The 600 pesos ones? Or the 3000 ones?
— The black ones
The black ones…
JALE:
Because I walk all the way to La Estrella, Itagüí…
It’s like, when you walk around selling…
…time flies. But eventually you feel a little agitated.
JALE:
Honey, here’s the money.
Tell mommy she owes me 200 pesos, because it’s 1200 pesos
JALE:
Sometimes it’s happened that, I went,
and sometimes the business was so bad, everything was so hard,
that I felt like throwing that tray away.
But I thought: this is what I live of, I support my family with this,
I support my kids with this, I support myself with this,
so I put the tray on again and I kept walking, shouting, and working.
Why? Because you should thank God instead,
because even if it’s just this, you’re doing something.
JALE:
[Melody from popular song]
If only you knew how good these gelatins are...Buy them!
If only you knew how good these gelatins are, buy them!
WOMAN:
You see people looking out their windows, laughing,
listening to the songs she makes up.
She’s amazing. Coming up with all those songs…
But it’s all due to her gelatins, she doesn’t name anything. Excellent.
JALE:
[Melody from popular song]
Ras tas tas, move over there
Ras tas tas, come over here
Ras tas tas, move over there!
JALE:
When you come closer to home you notice you’re tired, right?
But not because you don’t have any problems, it’s just that you--all of us have problems.
Right? But you gotta enjoy life anyways! You gotta enjoy it, because problems,
they’ll show up everyday, they’ll be there, but life goes on.
Am I right?
And when I don’t bring gelatins back, they’re gone.
So they’re gone, they’re gone all right,
they’re gone, they’re gone all right, they’re gone.